So, we've talked about top types,
bottom types.
Let's talk a little bit about type guards,
and narrowing.
So we have already addressed
a bunch of different
kinds of built in type guards, right?
So I've created a value here that
could be it's not quite an any but
it could be a bunch of different things.
And we can see a bunch of different
ways that we can narrow it down,
get a branch of code that will
execute only in a specific scenario.
And then within that code block, we can
treat it in a more useful way, right?
Like, as it stands, there's not much you
can do with value given that it's so
varied like what it might be.
So here we could say, okay,
it might be a date, so
we use instant serve as a type guard.
Type of, right?
That works just fine.
Checking whether something's undefined or
not, the type of is great for that.
Checking against a specific value that's
a perfectly fine type card to use.
Truthy, falsy checks are fine.
Just beware, of course, empty strings and
zero and false are all false II values.
So if you have something like it's
Boolean or undefined, truthy, false,
you might catch something you're
not intending to catch, right?
Some built in functions have type card
capabilities like array.is array, right?
So we can see that value comes
in could be a bunch of things.
But within this block,
it can only be a couple
of length one that contains a number.
Property presence check with
this in keyword, right?
That's saying is does there exist an owned
property called date range, within value.
And then of course, you can always
like make a couple checks and
then whatever's left over,
that'll be what's left over.
So that's sort of like
a reverse type guard, right?
Can carve away the parts
that you don't want.
And all that's left is what's left.
So those are built in type guards.
And I think this is an exhaustive list.
But let's talk about user defined
type guards because often,
we want to operate on a much higher level
than simply saying, is this a string?
Is this a number?
We more want to think about if you're
building the front end masters website,
you'd want to say is this a learning
path or is this a course?
Or is this an instructor or
is this a user account?
And that's a lot more complicated.
It's harder to think about how you
might squeeze these kinds of things
together to achieve that same
level of creating a branch and
knowing that it's this more complex
object as you go down that path.
So that's where user defined
type guards come in handy.
And here's an example of how ugly
things could potentially get, right?
So if we wanted to see,
is maybe car doesn't look like a car.
Well, in order to do this safely,
given that it's an unknown, right,
remember, we can't use this unknown until
we narrow it down with a type card and
check it out and
make sure it's what we think it is.
So you'd have to see okay, does it?
Is it knowledge like Could it be null or
undefined?
Well, we eliminate that with this.
And then Okay, does it have like
is it an object of an object type?
Does it have make model and year our
make model and year strings numbers.
Do you could do this.
Let's say you were willing to do this,
right?
I would argue, you're already out of your
mind if you want to write a bunch of
code that looks like this.
But let's pretend you're out of your mind.
So, even if this did work, Eventually,
you're gonna wanna refactor this.
You're just gonna wanna take that same
code that's sort of a bunch of different
stuff in your conditional.
You move it out into a function just so
that your code can look like this, right?
But the problem here is,
even though these are all type guards,
there's nothing about his car
like there's nothing about this
function that says, hey, TypeScript,
you should regard the true or
false value that this function returns.
As an indication of what
the type the argument is, right?
Like, right now, even if we added
type annotations here, right?
Even if we said this returns a Boolean
instead of an any there's nothing
that tells TypeScript that something
special about that Boolean that
it has any bearing on what should be
assumed about the argument we passed in.
And so even the imperfect narrowing effect
that we had when we had all this stuff up
here, like at least we saw
that it was an object, right?
I mean, really,
that just came from this here.
But we don't even get that here.
It's back to unknown.
We're like back to square one.
So user defined type guards
are the solution to this problem.
And the problem we're trying to solve is
TypeScript has no idea that the return
value of his car like has anything
to do with what we passed into it.
So here we go.
We're going to make this
a user defined type guard.
And we're going to start by
talking about an is type card.
Value is foo, right?
So we're going to see that
syntax somewhere in a moment.
So here we go.
It's a function is car-like.
It takes an argument.
Typically, you're going to want this
argument to be something very flexible.
Why?
Because you're going to reach into it.
And you're going to check for
the presence of things.
You're probing, right?
You're inspecting it, you can't assume
that you know what it is yet, but
you need it to be flexible enough to
perform the validation, that makes sense.
And then what makes this a type guard
is the special way of writing its
return type.
So we can say effectively that like Yes,
his car like it returns a Boolean.
But that Boolean should
be taken as an indication
of whether value to test
conforms to the type car like.
And we can write our
same implementation here.
But look at this.
Out here, it's unknown.
And within this block,
it conforms to the interface.
And it's only because you're
telling TypeScript to trust you.
So, this is very important.
This type guard can be your best friend or
it can be your worst enemy.
Because let's just completely
do something crazy.
What if we did this.
Just anything you give me,
I'm just gonna say it's always car like.
Well, there it is, I'm not narrowing the
value anymore if that's what's happening.
So there's our -19.
It'll be change this to x.
Like apparently -19 is a car like,
like I can access make model and
year on this thing.
No errors, None,
no little red dots in my scroll bar here.
So the type car is only as
good as your alignment between
the actual checking logic
that you implement and
the claim you make,
about what that logic means
means in terms of the type,
of what's passed in.
If your logic here is flawed,
you're gonna run into big problems,
because type scripts got
to do exactly what you say.
Right now I'm saying everything's carlike.
And so -19 apparently has
a property called year on it,
TypeScript doing what
I'm telling it to do.
So just be really careful about these.
These are again, I said this before
I want to say one more time.
These type guards are the glue
between compile time validation and
runtime behavior, you got to make sure
that your compile time validation and
your runtime behavior match up.
And if they don't, you're gonna
be lying to yourself here, right?
You're gonna be allowing yourself
to comfortably reach in and
pull things off and
operate on values that should be erroring.
Let's look at the other type
of user defined type card.
And it follows this format,
asserts value is foo.
So, here's what the return
type looks like.
I've changed this very slightly, right?
But that the return type
is changed a little bit.
The type guard itself if the check is
the same check we were performing before,
if it is found to not
be car like we throw.
So if you pass through this function and
we haven't thrown your car like
that's what we're saying here.
If this function finishes
without throwing,
that means value to test his car like so
effectively this
function asserts that
the value to test is car like.
As a result,
we can do something really cool here.
We don't have to use a conditional because
we're sort of using the return versus
throw branching, well, I don't necessarily
agree that that's control flow.
It is definitely a true statement
that will only reach this line down
here if we pass through the function
without throwing, right?
But this is great for modeling,
things that are in test suites or
things that really are exceptional
validation where if,
like you don't even know how to
proceed unless this is car like.
So we want to get something more
specific like we get we can't operate on
this waltz and unknown and
we legitimately do want an error to be
thrown if this is some weird value.
So in a might be the right
thing to do here.
But this is the other kind of
type card that you can use.
I commonly will use both where
I would create something
that's like is car-like and
then I would consume this and
kind of wrap it in something
that'll throw it in error.
So I get both of
the funding is typed guard.
And then I'll use that same little
Boolean returning function in my
asserts type guard.
So here's a terrible
example of type guard.
And you can see like, well, I already
showed you an even more terrible one.
But here I'm assuming that
all false things are no.
Well, this will make you think zero is
now an empty string is now like the false
Boolean value is no, obviously,
there are false things that are not no.
But again, TypeScript will.
It will follow your instructions, right?
So in this case we have empty and
we have zero.
And we're here saying, if this value
is no then log and unfortunately,
we're just catching way, way,
way too much with this type card.
And we're never going to
be able to get here, right?
It's claiming that It's
impossible that we'll get here.